# Title: Apple may enable sideloading in Europe ‘in the coming weeks’
Link: https://www.developer-tech.com/news/2024/jan/16/apple-may-enable-sideloading-europe-in-coming-weeks/
The article details how Apple is likely to allow sideloading on their devices after facing pressure from European lawmakers, who feel the restrictions from Apple are anti-competitive. "Sideloading" is when a user downloads and installs an application from a third party, essetially anywhere other than the offical App Store. Apple feels that allowing users to download apps from other sources would be a threat to their phones' user security, which, in my opinion, they have a better reputation for comapred with Android devices. Another likely reason Apple has restricted sideloading is the profitability of the App Store. While I don't think this wil affect most people, I think this is generally good thing because I think users should have more freedom and control over their device, as long as they are well informed of the risk. I think this will have a biggest effect on developers who have felt restricted adhering to the App Store's policies. A notable example was Fortnite, which was banned from the App store when Epic Games encouraged their users to buy their in-game currency "V-Bucks" directly from them, so Apple would not get a cut of their profits through the app store.


## Reyhan's comments

Unfortunately I wasn't able to read the original artiicle as it wasn't linked but I agree with the above comments that it is generally a good thing Apple is allowing sideloading on their devices. For too long companies like Apple have had bad consumer practices regarding user freedom with their purchased products.
